Prompt Explorer (#11)
Kipok/NeMo-Skills: visualization/Readme.md

This is a tool for data analysis, consisting of two pages: "Inference" and "Analyze".

### Getting Started
Before using this tool, follow the instructions in [prerequisites.md](/docs/prerequisites.md), and install requirements:
```shell
pip install -r visualization/requirements.txt
```
You can adjust parameters in the [visualization_config.yaml](/visualization/settings/visualization_config.yaml) file or via the command line. Use the following command to launch the program (all parameters are optional):
```shell
python visualization/data_explorer.py \
++server.host=<host>
```

> For the "Inference" page, launch the server with the model (see [inference.md](/docs/inference.md)), specify `host` and, if not launching locally, `ssh_key` and `ssh_server`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the "Inference" page, launch the server with the model (see [inference.md](/docs/inference.md)), specify `host` and, if necessary, `ssh_key` and `ssh_server`.
```

This is a tool for data analysis, consisting of two pages: "Inference" and "Analyze".

### Getting Started
Before using this tool, follow the instructions in [prerequisites.md](/docs/prerequisites.md), download datasets, and install requirements:
```shell
pip install -r visualization/requirements.txt

> ./datasets/prepare_all.sh

Reviewer: This is already part of prerequisites, so can skip listing it here

```
You can adjust parameters in the [visualization_config.yaml](/visualization/settings/visualization_config.yaml)  file or via the command line. Use the following command to launch the program (all parameters are optional):
```shell

> python visualization/data_explorer.py \

Reviewer: I think the main use-case is actually running this locally, not on slurm - so maybe list just the host as an argument and mention that can also add ssh parameters if this is necessary for connecting to slurm

++server.ssh_key_path=<path_to_ssh> \
++server.ssh_server=<server> \
++server.host=<host>
```
For the "Inference" page, launch the server with the model (see [inference.md](/docs/inference.md)) and specify `ssh_key`, `ssh_server`, and `host`.

## Inference page

> This page enables the analysis of model answers based on different parameters. It offers three modes: "Chat," "Run one sample," and "Run whole dataset."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page enables the analysis of model answers based on different parameters. It offers three modes: "Chat", "Run one sample", and "Run whole dataset".
```

- **Chat** mode facilitates a conversation with the model and requires minimal parameter setup.
- **Run one sample** mode allows you to send a single question to the model. It can be a question from the dataset (with parameters `data_file` or `dataset` and `split_name`) or a custom question. The answer is validated by comparing it with the `expected_answer` field.

> - **Run whole dataset** mode lets you launch the model with chosen parameters on the entire dataset. Results are saved in `visualization/results/output-greedy.jsonl` and `visualization/results/metrics-greedy.jsonl`. If the "use random seed range" flag is enabled, the dataset will be launched for random seeds in the range from `start_random_seed` to `end_random_seed`. You do not need to relaunch the program to analyze the results on the "Analyze" page. The parameters used for dataset launch are also recorded in the `visualization/results/parameters.jsonl` file and displayed on the "Analyze" page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Run whole dataset** mode lets you launch the model with chosen parameters on the entire dataset. Results are saved in `visualization/results/output-greedy.jsonl` and `visualization/results/metrics-greedy.jsonl`. If the "use random seed range" flag is enabled, each answer will be sampled with multiple random seeds in the range from `start_random_seed` to `end_random_seed`. After generation is done, you can review the results on the "Analyze" page. The parameters used for dataset launch are also recorded in the `visualization/results/parameters.jsonl` file and displayed on the "Analyze" page.
```

## Analyze page
To use the Analyze page, specify paths to the datasets you want to use (if not obtained through the "Inference" page). You can pass parameters via the command line with `++visualization_params.model_prediction.model1='/some_path/model1/output-greedy.jsonl'` or add them in an additional config file.

```yaml
visualization_params:
  model_prediction:
    model1: /some_path/model1/output-greedy.jsonl
    model2: /some_path/model2/output-rs*.jsonl
```

> Here, `model1` and `model2` are the names of the datasets for analysis. All files satisfying the given pattern will be considered for analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool also supports comparison of multiple model outputs (e.g. 
 `model1` and `model2` in the config above). All files satisfying the given pattern will be considered for analysis.
```

> On this page, you can sort, filter, and compare models. You can also add labels to the data and save your modified, filtered, and sorted dataset by specifying `save_dataset_path`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On this page, you can sort, filter, and compare model outputs. You can also add labels to the data and save your modified, filtered, and sorted dataset by specifying `save_dataset_path`.
```

> This is a tool for data analysis. It has two pages: "Run model" and "Analyze".

Reviewer: run model or run prompt? Pick one

> ## Run Prompt page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run Prompt page
```

This page allows for the analysis of model answers depending on different parameters we set up. It has three modes: "Complete", "Run one test", and "Run whole dataset".

> **Complete** mode allows for a conversation with the model. It has the minimum parameters to set up.

Reviewer: Should this be split into multiple lines? You can use some tool (e.g. vs-code) to preview the markdown, right now this is all just one really big line

**Run one test** mode allows you to send a single question to the model. It can be a question from the dataset (parameters `data_file` or `dataset` and `split_name` determine the dataset) or your custom question. The answer is also validated by comparing it with the `expected_answer` field.

> **Run whole dataset** mode allows you to launch the model with chosen parameters on the whole dataset. It will save results in an `output_file` and `save_metrics` paths if specified, or by default paths: `results/output-greedy.jsonl` and `results/metrics-greedy.jsonl`. If the "use random seed range" flag is turned on, the dataset will be launched for random seeds in the range from `start_random_seed` to `random_seed`. All results can then be analyzed on the "Analyze" page (you do not need to relaunch the program), and the parameters you used to launch the dataset can be found in the `results/parameters.jsonl` file and on the "Analyze" page as well.

Reviewer: Let's just save metrics/outputs to one folder, so that you only need to specify folder name?

Reviewer: Should it be `end_random_seed`?

## Analyze page:

> To use the Analyze page, you need to specify paths to the datasets you want to analyze (if you did not get the data through the web). You can pass parameters via command line  `++visualization_params.model_prediction.model1='/some_path/model1/output-greedy.jsonl'` or modify `visualization_config.py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Analyze page, you need to specify paths to the datasets you want to analyze (if you did not get the data through the "run model" page). You can pass parameters via command line  `++visualization_params.model_prediction.model1='/some_path/model1/output-greedy.jsonl'` or modify `visualization_config.py`.
```
Maybe name it like "inference" / "analyze" ?

Reviewer: visualization_config.py -> visualization_config.yaml (better add a link)

```yaml
visualization_params:
  prediction_jsonl_files:
    model1: /some_path/model1/output-greedy.jsonl
    model2: /some_path/model2/output-rs*.jsonl
```
`model1` and `model2` are the names of the datasets we want to analyze. All files satisfying the given pattern will be taken for analysis.
On the page itself, you can sort, filter, and compare models. You can also add labels to the data and save your modified, filtered, and sorted dataset by specifying `save_dataset_path`.

> ## Getting Started:

Reviewer: Put this on top

> Before using this tool, you first need to prepare dataset and install requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using this tool, you first need to download datasets and install requirements:
```

```
    pip install -r visualization/requirements.txt
    ./datasets/prepare_all.sh
```

> By default 'math' dataset will be used. You can change it in config.yaml file (dataset: str = "math"), in visualization/settings/visualization_config.yaml or through command line

Reviewer: Let's not have a default here and require to explicitly set it instead

Command to launch the program (all parameters are optional):
```

>     python3 visualization/__main__.py \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    python3 visualization/main.py \
```
or maybe rename it to data_explorer.py to make it more verbose

    ssh_key=<path_to_ssh> \
    ssh_server=<server> \

>     hostname=<host> \

Reviewer: Some details are missing - e.g. do I need to launch server myself before starting this script?

    dataset=<dataset_name>
```

> For instance:

Reviewer: this is not necessary

```
    python3 visualization/__main__.py \
    ssh_key=~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub \
    ssh_server=username@server_name \
    hostname=10.180.11.36 \
    dataset=gsm8k
```

> To set the path to your results files you should change visualization/settings/visualization_config.yaml file:

Reviewer: Can it be changed from command line?

Author: Path to files should be a Dict[str, List[str]] (Dict keys are model names and values are a list of files) it is tricky to have it in command line

```

> prediction_jsonl_files:

Reviewer: There is no context as to what this means, can you explain why this is needed and how it's going to be used? You can also add some images showing how the tool works, similar to how it'd done for the speech data explorer docs in nemo
